# Si7060 Temperature Sensor

- [Si7060 Temperature Sensor](#si7060-temperature-sensor)
- [Location](#location)
- [Type](#type)
- [Background](#background)
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Detailed Design](#detailed-design)
  - [API](#api)
  - [Initialization](#initialization)
  - [Obtaining Temperature Readings](#obtaining-temperature-readings)
- [Caveats](#caveats)
- [Future Advancements](#future-advancements)
- [Testing Plan](#testing-plan)
  - [Unit Testing Scheme](#unit-testing-scheme)
  - [Demonstration Project](#demonstration-project)

# Location
`L2_HAL`

# Type
Implementation

# Background
The Si7060 temperature sensor is a device utilizing I2C and capable of
measuring temperatures ranging between -47.4°C to +157.39°C with recommended
operating temperatures between -40°C to +125°C.

The data-sheet for the device can be found
[here](/datasheets/sjtwo/Temperature-Sensor/si7060-datasheet.pdf).

# Overview
Communication with the device uses typical I2C with temperature measurements
obtained in degrees Celsius.

The I2c device address for this device is factory programmed. To determine the
device address, refer to page 10, Section 5 in the data-sheet.

# Detailed Design
## API
```C++
namespace sjsu
{
class Si7060 final : public TemperatureSensor
{
 public:
  static constexpr uint8_t kDefaultAddress          = 0x31;
  static constexpr uint8_t kIdRegister              = 0xC0;
  static constexpr uint8_t kExpectedSensorId        = 0x14;
  static constexpr uint8_t kOneBurstRegister        = 0xC4;
  static constexpr uint8_t kAutomaticBitRegister    = 0xC5;
  static constexpr uint8_t kMostSignificantRegister = 0xC1;

  explicit constexpr Si7060(sjsu::I2c & i2c, uint8_t address = kDefaultAddress);
  Status Initialize() const override;
  Status GetTemperature(
      units::temperature::celsius_t * temperature) const override;

 private:
  const sjsu::I2c & i2c_;
  uint8_t address_;
};
}  // namespace sjsu
```

## Initialization
```c++
Status Initialize() const override
```
The following sequence is performed to initialize the device:
1. Initialize the `I2c` peripheral.
2. Attempt to verify the device's connection by checking the device chip and
   revision information register at address 0xC0. The resulting data byte should
   always be `0x14`. If the device address does not match the expected address,
   return `Status::kDeviceNotFound`.

## Obtaining Temperature Readings
Temperature readings are stored in two registers, the most significant byte
register (Dspsigm) and the least significant byte register (Dspsigl). When the
auto-increment option is enabled, the register pointer will be automatically
incremented. Additionally, the device can be configured to operate in one-burst
mode to conserve power by only performing one temperature conversion when
requested.

```c++
Status GetTemperature(
    units::temperature::celsius_t * temperature) const override
```
Performs the following sequence to obtain a temperature reading:
1. Set the operation mode to one burst mode.
2. Extract the high and low bytes of the temperature data by setting the
   register pointer to Dspsigm and reading the Dspsigm and Dspsigl registers.
3. Convert the temperature data into degrees Celsius with the following equation
   obtained from page 4, Section 2.2 in the data-sheet:

   T (°C) = 55 + ((256 * Dspsigm[6:0] + Dspsigl[7:0] - 16384) / 160)
          = 55 + ((((Dspsigm[6:0] << 8) | Dspsigl[7:0]) - 16384) / 160)

# Caveats
N/A

# Future Advancements
N/A

# Testing Plan
## Unit Testing Scheme
An `I2c` driver shall be mocked and injected to the driver.

The following functions will be tested:
- Initialize()
  - Should return `Status::kDeviceNotFound` when the I2c mock is stubbed to
    initialize successfully and stubbed to output a device id of `0xFF`.
  - Should return `Status::kSuccess` when the I2c mock is stubbed to initialize
    successfully and stubbed to output a device id of `0x14`.
- GetTemperature()
  - The I2c mock shall be stubbed to output a temperature data of `0x66C1`.
    - The call count of the `I2c` method `Transaction()` should be exactly `4`
      which consists of the following:
      1. A write transaction to enable one-shot mode.
      2. A write transaction to enable auto-increment.
      3. A write transaction to register pointer to most significant byte
         register and read the MSB of the temperature data.
      4. A read transaction to retrieve the LSB of the temperature data.
    - Should return a temperature value of `~117.006f`.

## Demonstration Project
A demonstration project using the LPC40xx platform can be found
[here](/demos/sjtwo/temperature/source/main.cpp).
